# Pulmanory-Disease-Detection-using-Deep-Learning

Improvements in Technologies, especially their under-section of Machine Learning and, more specifically, Deep Learning, have changed the concept of Medical Science toward much more effectual treatment of Life-threatening Diseases related to Cancer, Diabetes, Cardio-vascular Conditions, and Respiratory Disorders. The research focuses on the implementation of Convolutional Neural Networks over lung sounds for diagnosis and assessment in respiratory ailments. This project shall help realize the ability of deep CNNs in "listening" to respiratory sounds, hence aiding in the fast and accurate diagnosis of various respiratory infections like Asthma, Pneumonia, COPD, URTI, LRTI, Bronchiectasis, and Bronchiolitis. Also, it would check on the intensity of diseases by analyzing changes in breathing manifested by patients. It shall also provide measures for prevention and learning through video clips from YouTube to manage respiratory illness.
The system has been engineered to include an SMS alert feature, which shall be of great benefit especially in unserved and underserved areas with low internet connectivity. In doing so, the system allowed for easy communication of health information of importance so that even in the most basic, off-grid environments, people received vital care and advice. This will greatly influence public health if this project will be successful to be executed since the patients with respiratory diseases would already be empowered to be able to monitor, and probably even prevent it. A reliable diagnostic tool for the healthcare workforce breaks barriers to easy access to healthcare, which is mostly a problem in isolated and underserved communities where health information will be given with an ease of dissemination.
